Magnetic Fields

41. (2019-set2-3a/c~e)

Two plates are set up with a potential difference V between them. A small sphere of mass m and charge ~
is placed at the left-hand plate, which has a negative charge, and is allowed to accelerate across the space
between the plates and pass through a small opening. After passing through the small opening, the sphere
enters a region in which there is a uniform magnetic field of magnitude B directed into the page, as shown
above. Ignore gravitational effects. Express all algebraic answers in terms of V, m, e, B, and fundamental
constants, as appropriate.

(a)
i. What is the initial direction of the force on the sphere as it enters the magnetic field?
Into the page                              Out of the page

Toward the top of the page           Toward the bottom of the page

ii. Describe the path taken by the sphere after it enters the magnetic field.
(c) Derive an expression for the radius of the path taken by the sphere as it moves through the magnetic field.

An experiment is performed in which a beam of electrons is accelerated across the space between the plates and
passes through the small opening. After passing through the opening, the electrons travel in a semicircular path
and strike the right-hand plate. The potential difference between the plates is varied in regular increments, as
shown in the table below. For each potet      difference, the magnetic field is varied in order to cause the beam to
strike the right-hand plate at a distance of 0.020 m from the opening.

Potential difference (V)           60         70         100        110        120        140
Magnetic field (T x 10)

2.62          2.78

»
國
Xa}

3.54       3.78        3.99

(d) Indcate below which quantities should be graphed to yield a straight line whose slope could be used to
calculate a numerical value for the mass-to-charge ratio of an electron.

Vertical a’

Horizontal axi

Use the remaining columns in the table above, as needed, to record any quant
not given. Label each column you use and include units.

s that you indicated that are

(e) Onthe graph below, plot the relationship determined in part (d). Clearly scale and label all axes, including
units, if appropriate. Draw a straight line that best represents the data.

AP Physics C: Electricity and Magnetism Practice Book                 216                                                  From Here, Go Anywhere
@ 2022 TestDaily